DOC-12561 Continuous backup PITR (#4138)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/manage/pages/manage-backup-and-restore/manage-pitr.adoc

In that case, the earliest moment you can restore to is shortly after you enabled continuous backup.
If you need to restore your cluster to a point earlier than this time, you can only restore a traditional backup, assuming you have one that covers the time you need to restore to.
However, you cannot restore to a specific point in time with traditional backup.

+
The latest time you can restore to is whenever the continuous backup agent last copied data to the continuous backup location. 
This may be as far back in the past as the continuous backup iteration period you set when configuring continuous backup.
If you stopped continuous backup, then you can only restore up to the moment you stopped it.

+
See xref:manage:manage-backup-and-restore/monitor-continuous-backup.adoc#get-cont-backup-info[Get Information About a Continuous Backup Location] to learn how to find the range of time backed up by a continuous backup location.

* You must have a bucket where you want to restore to. 
This can be:
+
--
** The original bucket. 
** A new bucket in the same cluster.
** A bucket in a different cluster.
--
+
PITR recovery does not flush the bucket before a restore.

> By default, it does not overwrite existing documents already in the bucket.

Reviewer: We should probably mention `--force-updates` here which will disable conflict resolution, so documents in the backup take precedence over those on the cluster

If you want to restore the bucket to its exact state at the point in time you choose, flush the bucket before restoring.
See xref:manage:manage-buckets/flush-bucket.adoc[] for more information about flushing buckets.

* To prevent consistency issues, stop continuous backup on the bucket you're restoring.
You must stop continuous backup even if you're not restoring to the original bucket.
Once the PITR finishes, you can restart continuous backup.
See xref:manage:manage-backup-and-restore/manage-continuous-backup.adoc#stop-continuous-backup[Stop Continuous Backup] to learn how to stop continuous backup for a bucket.

> 

Reviewer: Note for myself: I'm not sure if this is necessary, I need to check

Once the PITR finishes, you can restart continuous backup.
For more information about how to stop continuous backup for a bucket, see xref:manage:manage-backup-and-restore/manage-continuous-backup.adoc#stop-continuous-backup[Stop Continuous Backup].

NOTE: You do not need to stop traditional periodic backups or XDCR for the bucket when performing PITR.

== Restore to a Point in Time

You use the `cbcontbk` command line tool to restore a bucket backed up using continuous backup to point in time.

When calling `cbcontbk`, you must supply the following arguments:

* `--target` is the date and time you want to restore the bucket to in an https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3339/[RFC3339 timestamp^].
* `-u` and `-p` are the username and password for the full administrator.
* `--tmp-dir` is a temporary directory the `cbcontbk` can use when restoring data.
* `-l` the continuous backup storage location.
This is either:
** The absolute path to the backup storage location's Network File System (NFS) mount point on all nodes.
** The URI of the cloud storage location.
* `-a` is the filesystem path or S3 URI storing the traditional backup repository.

> * `-r` is the UUID for the repository containing the bucket's traditional backup.

Reviewer 2: Do you want to format this arguments list as a dlist as well?

* `-c` is the URL for a node in the cluster running the Backup Service.

NOTE: If you're restoring to an empty bucket or you want the bucket's existing documents to be in the state they were in at the time you're restoring to, add the `--force-updates` flag.
This flag can make the PITR faster by turning off conflict resolution.
For more information, see <<#pitr_force_updates>>.

You must also supply credentials `cbcontbk` can use to authenticate with the continuous backup location and the traditional backup repository if they're stored in the cloud.
If you have encrypted backups, you must also supply credentials to decrypt them.
For more information, see the xref:continuous-backup:cbcontbk.adoc[`cbcontbk`] documentation.

=== PITR Example

Suppose you want to restore the `travel-sample` bucket that uses locally mounted NFS shares for continuous backup and traditional backup.
Also suppose you want to restore to the original bucket and want it to be in the state it was in at your chosen restoration time.
In this case, you can follow these steps to perform the PITR:

. Stop continuous backup for the bucket.

> Because you'll need to use the command line to run `cbcontbk` anyhow, this example uses the command line on a node to stop continuous backup:

Reviewer 2: Idk, this feels a little condescending to me?

```suggestion
. Stop continuous backup for the bucket using the command line:
```

              --username $USERNAME --password $PASSWORD \
              --bucket travel-sample \
              --continuous-backup-enabled 0
```

. In this example, the goal is to have the bucket to be the exact state it was at your chosen recovery time.
Therefore, you must flush the bucket before performing PITR.

+
If the bucket does not have flushing enabled, you must first enable it:

+
[source,bash]
```
couchbase-cli bucket-edit --cluster couchbase://localhost \
              --username $USERNAME --password $PASSWORD \
              --bucket travel-sample \
              --enable-flush 1
```

+
Then flush the bucket:

+
[source,bash]
```
couchbase-cli bucket-flush --cluster couchbase://localhost \
              --username $USERNAME --password $PASSWORD \
              --bucket travel-sample
```

+
For more information about flushing buckets, see xref:manage:manage-buckets/flush-bucket.adoc[].

+
NOTE: After finishing PITR, consider turning off the ability to flush the bucket to prevent accidental data loss.

. Before performing the restore, verify the point in time you want to restore to is available in the continuous backup location.

> You can find the range of times you can restore to using the `cbcontbk` command line tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find the range of times you can restore to using the `cbcontbk` command line tool:
```

+
[source,bash]
```
include::manage:example$continuous-backup.sh[tag=get-backup-info]
```

+
The result of the previous command looks like the following:

+
[source,log]
```
include::manage:example$continuous-backup.log[tag=get-backup-info]
```

+
The result in the example shows that you can restore to any point in time between June 6th at 14:57 GMT and June 23rd at 17:55 GMT.

. Use the `cbcontbk restore` command to restore the bucket.

> The following command restores `travel-sample` to the state it was in at June 8th, 2026 at 19:54:10 GMT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following command restores `travel-sample` to the state it was in at June 8th, 2026 at 19:54:10 GMT:
```

+
[source,bash]
```
include::manage:example$continuous-backup.sh[tag=restore-bucket]
```

+
The output from this command looks like this:

+
[source,log]
```
include::manage:example$continuous-backup.log[tag=restore-output]
```

+
You can see that PITR restores a periodic full backup and possibly multiple incremental backups.
Then it replays mutations from the continuous backup until it reaches the selected point in time.

. After you have finished the PITR, start continuous backup again.

> The following example restarts continuous backup on the `travel-sample` bucket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example restarts continuous backup on the `travel-sample` bucket:
```

== PITR Performance and Conflict Resolution

After restoring periodic backups, a PITR replays mutations to restore the bucket to the state it was in at your chosen point in time.
By default, as it replays mutations, it performs Compare and Swap (CAS) checks to avoid overwriting changes to documents that are currently in the bucket.
This behavior prevents PITR from overwriting existing data in documents, so you can perform a PITR while keeping mutations to documents that happened after the point in time you're restoring to.

The CAS checks can make the PITR slower than a standard recovery.
The PITR performs these checks for each mutation it restores.
Each CAS check must read the document to determine if the mutation would overwrite existing data.
PITR on buckets where the metadata does not fit in memory (such as buckets with `fullEviction` eviction policies) can be especially slow.
The extra disk reads caused by CAS checks make the PITR slower.

If you do not need to preserve changes to existing documents or you're restoring to an empty bucket, use the `cbcontbk` command's `--force-updates` flag.
This flag improves PITR's performance by having it skip CAS checks.

> Instead, it just replays the mutation even if it overwrites data already in the bucket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, PITR replays the mutation even if it overwrites data already in the bucket.
```

> Instead, it just replays the mutation even if it overwrites data already in the bucket.

Reviewer 2: You also need another Next Steps section in this topic.
